The Joe Rogan experience.
Now let's talk about treatments that are being considered. Uh,
we know that Z packs are one of them, uh, and Klara queen.
Can you explain that?
And what went horribly wrong with the couple that took the wrong kind of
chloroquine and it turned out to be a coy pond cleaner.
Okay. So let me, let me put, give you the framework for that.
So it makes some sense when we talk about all the interventions,
you have things that are going to be ready down the line.
Things are going to be ready, a little closer and things ready now. So,
and then,
and then we can talk about one on one and then I'll I'll I'll let me give you
the framework that I'll answer your clerk. One question.
So the highest bar there is in terms of financial investment required,
and time to show safety is a vaccine. So that's what, that's what we're doing.
And other groups are doing next tier down. That's going to be, you know, a year,
18 months away, according to Dr. Fowchee could be longer than that.
Next tier down are what we call small molecule drugs,
new drugs that have never been discovered before. It still takes a while.
Maybe not as high a as vaccine in terms of time.
The next tier down is repurposing existing medicines that we
already know are relatively safe.
And then showing that those drugs also work against the coronavirus,
and that's going to be the chloric one category, and I'll get to your question.
And then the, the nearest ones,
the one that we could do now is what's called this convalescent, uh,
antibody therapy, uh,
which I've been pushing very hard on because I think we can actually have it
going net right now. So let's do the, um, uh,
let's do the chloroquine hydroxychloroquine. This is, uh, uh,
and that's one of the repurpose, the ones that's not the lowest hanging fruit,
but the next lowest hanging fruit. This is a medicine that's used for malaria.
It's an anti-malarial drug it's been around for decades. In fact,
the world health organization was going to have in the 1960s,
proposed an elimination strategy for malaria to treat everybody with chloroquine
until we had chloroquine resistance. And that derailed that,
but in some parts of the world still works as an anti-malarial drug.
It's also used as an anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment of lupus and other
autoimmune diseases. It, you can make a bucket of it. It's cheap.
Uh, we know the safety profile.
We know it can cause arrhythmias in some patient and other toxicities,
but it generally has a pretty good safety profile. Um,
we know that this drug can block the replication of the virus in the test
tube. So in habits, the virus in the, in,
in what we call it in vitro in the test tube, second, we know this drug, uh,
reduces inflammation.
And that's nice because one of the things you get with COVID-19 pneumonia is you
not only get the virus infection in the lung, you got a lot of inflammation.
So it checks a couple of boxes in terms of why it's attractive to look at it.
And then the Chinese did a small study and then a colleague of mine is a
fascinating guy. Uh, I I'm, uh,
I really appreciate his work as a scientist,
if he's a very serious scientists in Marsay and France named DDA row old.
And he's, I don't know,
it must've published at least two or three dozen papers in the journal that I,
uh, uh, found, uh, called plus neglected tropical diseases.
He's a serious scientist, works on all sorts of interests, cellular bacteria,
and that kind of thing.
Tick-borne diseases did a small study showing that it worked in COVID patients.
And what he did was he combined hydroxy chloroquine with the Z-Pak,
the azithromycin drug and found, found that there's an effect. The problem was,
was a very tiny study.
And so people put those three things together and all of a sudden said,
we've got the miracle cure. I,
I'm not sure that's going to turn out to be the case. I mean,
we really need to do large studies to show that it really works.
And the reason I'm holding back is, uh, you know, nothing to do with, uh,
Dr. Professor Rowe is, you know, really important scientists,
but it's a small study.
We were there about a decade ago with influenza that this hydroxy chloroquine
also inhibited, uh, the influenza virus in the test tube,
but then it didn't pan out in Clinton, larger clinical studies.
So I think we have to be really careful and don't be too quick to say, okay,
this is, this is going to be at, I don't, we're not even close to that yet,
but we'll know in the next few weeks,
cause we're really working hard to scale up, uh,
clinical trials looking at that medicine now. Um.
And in terms of vaccines.
But there is, uh, there is a, there is a new,
there's something new though that we can do right now, uh, talk to you about,
so this is, uh,
something called convalescent antibody therapy and it was, and it was,
it's been known for over a hundred years. And it was really, uh,
scaled up during the 1918 influenza pandemic, you know,
where that terrible pandemic that killed hundreds, tens of millions of people.
It was shown that if you took individuals had,
who had recovered from the disease who had got infected, they survived,
they had antibodies in their blood. You could remove their blood in some cases,
give them back their red cells and take the plasma component and use that as a
therapy to treat patients. And, uh, and in fact,
during the 2003, uh, SARS epidemic,
the first SAR SARS one,
there's been a number of studies showing that it worked it actually,
you could treat patients for it, uh,
especially if you gave it early on in the course of the infection.
If you waited too long, then it didn't have nearly the same benefit,
but you gave it early on the course of infection.
It could prevent more serious infection and even death because you're actually
giving back antibodies. The antibodies won't last forever,
but enough to help you survive the infection. So, um,
a good friend and colleague who I've known for a long time,
our Turo Casa Deval is a brilliant, uh,
professor of microbiology at Johns Hopkins, you know,
started talking to me about, you know, Peter, maybe we should be doing this for,
uh, COVID 19. And, and as the numbers started going up, I said,
I called him. I said, look, Arturo,
I'm going on CNN tomorrow. Uh, uh, I,
I think this is an opportunity to tell people about this. So I, you know,
helped amplify, uh, what he was doing. He had written a paper, uh, with, uh,
with a colleague from Johns Hopkins, a at least San Peroni per profile.
I always get her always mangled, her name per Foskey, uh, uh, at, uh,
Albert Einstein.
And I talked to him about this and that really got things moving along.
So I've been trying to use my voice on, you know, being on CNN and Fox news.
[inaudible] not just to hear myself talk, but to actually raise specific issues,
to get people to care about, about certain things. And I,
and I used it for this purpose and I think it helped to mobilize some action in
now, uh, what our chairman and his colleagues are doing together with the FDA.
So there's a branch of the food and drug administration called CBRE the center
for biologics evaluation research, which is this amazing, you know,
you might hear a lot of bad things about the FDA.
I think the FDA is amazing myself, but CBRE is something very special.
All of these brilliant scientists who deal with vaccines and biologic,
they're on board with it. I've been talking with Peter Marks, Dr. Peter Marks,
who's the head of CBRE. And he's teamed up with,
with our Turo to get this network together,
going at least among 20 academic health centers,
so that they're identifying patients, who've recovered taking their blood,
giving them back the red cells,
collecting the plasma so that when people come in sick, uh,
they can give treatment and they'll have some clinical trial results.
I hope in the next few weeks, but I'm really optimistic about that one for,
for saving lives. The other thing our terrorist talked to me about is, you know,
could you use it in smaller doses to give the antibody to healthcare workers and
to first responders, uh, to prevent them from getting sick? Cause you're here.
I mean, I don't know the percentage now of first responders, uh, in New York.
And that's why they turned the empire state building into a siren last night.
And, and to, to honor all of the,
all of the first responders who've gotten sick,
we knew this was going to happen. Maybe this, this could help them.
So I think that's going to be really important as well.
Now, the French government,
I was reading an article this morning that they've sanctioned chloroquine as a,
an official treatment. And, uh, they're,
they're having some good results with that.
Are people currently using that in the United States are doctors prescribing
that.
There's a lot of what's called off-label use meaning that it's not an approved
indication, but they're going ahead and use it. And, uh, you know, I just,
I think, and, and maybe it'll turn out to be a good treatment. Uh,
but the evidence is, is not strong. Uh,
the there's a study in Shanghai that suggested it didn't work.
So we really need well controlled trials.
We really need to pin down the dose because maybe it's a dosing thing.
Maybe if you give too high or too low a dose, it's not going to work,
how you pair it with the Zithromax.
So it's going to take a little bit of time to work out.
And this is the frustration that people have. You know, you're saying, my God,
we have this terrible pandemic.
Now we need to get these new therapies and vaccines are very quickly.
It's the hardest thing to do.
It's the hardest thing to do is to accelerate new technologies for,
uh, a new virus pathogen that we've never seen before,
while the epidemic is raging while the pandemic is raging, it's re
we, we we've, we don't have a lot of track record doing this. We did it, uh,
once, uh, with Ebola. Uh, if you remember, in 2014, there was a,
uh, terrible Ebola epidemic in west Africa effected 33,000 people,
11,000 people died, uh, that was in Guinea Liberia and Sierra Leone.
And there were some initial vaccine trials started by Merck and company. Uh,
that looked pretty promising.
They had licensed the technology from the Canadians, this group in Manitoba, uh,
public health, uh, Canada. And it looked promising,
but as the trials got underway, what happened was the resilience,
your national response to put in a health system,
because it turns out he bowl is not very transmissible.
You just have to have some healthcare infrastructure make certain that you're
not directly handling the corpse of someone who's recently
died from Ebola virus infection and the, uh,
and we even sent in the hundred first airborne division we sent in the
screaming Eagles, which made a big impact on helping to, uh,
say, you know, save west Africa from this infection. So the who came in, uh,
there was a UNICEF, there was, uh, doctors without borders. Lots of I'm sorry,
I'm the Israeli army came in. Israeli defense force came in.
A lot of groups came in to help west Africa.
And so the vaccine never really got fully tested, but then five years later,
when there was the terrible epidemic, a democratic Republic of Congo,
that's when the vaccine really came into widespread use.
And it's probably one of the most important public health stories never told,
uh, which was under conditions of terrible conflict and war and political strife
and, uh, uh, civil, civil war. Uh,
they vaccinated 200,000 people with this vaccine and it largely
help, uh, eliminate Ebola from democratic Republic of Congo in that,
in that, during those hostilities last, last year, and, uh,
essentially saved, uh,
I think it's helped to stabilize the whole African continent. Um,
so it's an amazing story. And again,
it was this multilateral effort that involved also the U S government,
the NIH and Barta and all of these organizations.
It's an extraordinary story. And as a result, uh,
we really helped stabilize, uh, uh, Sub-Saharan Africa,
but we'll look at the timeframe 2014 first epidemic to
2019. That's five that's five years.
That's a more realistic timeframe for a vaccine just to give people a sense of
perspective.